So React is all about components
and I hope I could make it clear
why it's all about components
and what exactly a component is.
So therefore the next question is,
how exactly is a component built?
Now we'll dive into the concrete code in just a second.
In general, it's just important to keep in mind
what I mentioned earlier.
In the end user interfaces are about HTML,
CSS and JavaScript.
And therefor all these components are about combining HTML,
When we work with React and we build components,
we in the end do just that.
We combine HTML, CSS and JavaScript in all these components
and then we combine all of these components together
to build the entire user interface.
Though, I will say while CSS of course matters
and we're going to add CSS in this course,
it's the least important part here.
Mostly React components
are about combining HTML and JavaScript and then of course,
you also can add CSS but that's not the focus of React.
Nonetheless, I will teach you of course
how you can make sure that your components look beautiful.
So long story short,
React is all about components and about building
these components which we combined together.
React allows you to create these re-usable
and reactive components,
and you are going to see
what reactive means in detail later,
React allows you to build these re-usable
and reactive components consisting of HTML and JavaScript
and as I mentioned also a bit of CSS.
Now here's the important part though.
As you will learn throughout this course,
React uses something which is called a declarative approach
for building these components.
And you will see what exactly that is,
but it basically means that with React,
you will not tell React that a certain HTML element
should be created and inserted in a specific place
on the user interface as you would be doing it
with Vanilla JavaScript,
so with just JavaScript, for example.
Instead with React and that's really important,
you will always define the desired end state,
the target state or possibly also different target states
depending on different conditions
and it's then React's job to figure out
which elements on the actual webpage might need to be added
or removed or updated.
And you don't write these concrete DOM
updating instructions on your own
as you would be doing it with just JavaScript,
instead with React and React components,
you just define these end states
and under which conditions which state should be used
and then React will do all of the rest under the hood.
It's a bit like magic,
it's of course not actual magic
but it will make your life as a developer much easier.
So you could say that in the end
we just built our own custom HTML Elements
and we combined them together for building a user interface.
But that's enough of the theory for now.
Let's now finally dive into some code
and start building these components.